 In early October, deputy director general of strategic and emergency projects at the Department of Water and Sanitation, Trevor Balzer, said that South Africa is at a critical time for water and sanitation planning. The Cape Town water crisis is proof of this and has provided the necessary jolt to action when it comes to ensuring water and sanitation are properly managed around the country. Cape Town annual dam levels taken from 30 October each year, show that currently the annual dam levels sit at 38.5%. Around this time last year, the dam levels where at 60.4%.  The weekly dam levels are at 28.5%.  As the last 10% of the Cape Town dams’ water are difficult to use, the useable water is approximately 10% less than the dams’ level. Water experts have predicted that the Cape Town water crisis is likely to worsen in the next year. They have encouraged people to stick within the daily use limit of 87 litres per person. The city has created a daily water usage calculator where people can calculate their daily usage. The water usage still remains higher (585 million litres) than the daily average allocation of 500 million litres a day.  The Cape Town mayor, Patricia de Lille visited the Waterfront on 29 October. This is the demarcated site to build a 2 million litre desalination plant that will be operating by February 2018.  This week, GrahamTek, a global desalination and water purification company based near Cape Town, unveiled a locally designed and assembled modular sea water desalination plant for deployment in Saudi Arabia. Each of the modular plants has the capacity to produce three million litres of potable water from sea water per day and can be upscaled to virtually any size. These could be some of the solutions that private business provides to government at this critical time. The GrahamTek engineers identified opportunities to reduce the cost of water production by more than 20% and improve the reliability of the plants in the process. Last week, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba announced plans to reduce the country’s contingency reserves from more than R30bn to R8bn in the next two years to offset revenue shortfalls and to reduce borrowing. This means R22bn from the reserves, which are meant for emergencies and unforeseeable events, will be used by government. This paints a grim picture of the SA’s future in light of the water crisis in the past few years. The only consolation on government level is that The Department of Water and Sanitation is drafting a National Water and Sanitation Master Plan to be completed in March 2018.  The Vaal River System consisting of 14 dams serving mainly Gauteng Sasol and Eskom is at 83%. The Cape Town Dams System consisting of six dams serving mainly City of Cape Town this week are 28.5%. Here are the latest dam percentages throughout the country: 