 There are many dangerous toxins lurking in virtually every corner of our homes – from benzene to formaldahyde. These carcinogenic chemicals are used in the manufacturing of synthetic substances and materials. We pride ourselves on our carpets, upholstery, and furniture, but few of us think of these items as a source of hazardous chemicals. Organic chemicals are widely used as ingredients in household products – paints, varnishes and wax all contain organic solvents, as do many cleaning, disinfecting, cosmetic, degreasing and hobby products. All of these products can release organic compounds while you are using them, and, to some degree, when they are stored.   Much of the research on these beneficial houseplants has been done by NASA scientists researching ways to create suitable habitats for space stations in outer space. VOCs have an impact on indoor air quality, but you don’t have to invest in expensive electrical air purifiers when you could purchase a few houseplants that will purify and filter the air in your home naturally and inexpensively. This means that these types of houseplants may just decrease your risk of cancers, asthma, allergies, auto-immune disorders and other diseases.  According to Nasa, Aloe Vera is one of the best plants for air purification. This easy-to-grow, sun-loving succulent helps clear toxic formaldehyde and benzene from the environment. These toxins are often a byproduct of chemical-based cleaners, paints and more. Place it in such a way that it gets sun during the day while it purifies the air while you are sleeping.  Virtually everyone has this fern in their home or garden or grew up with it. It has graced indoor and outdoor landscapes since Victorian times. This common fern humidifies and purifies the air generally, but is particularly good at removing formaldahyde. NASA ranks it ninth on its list of air-purifying plants. Mist the plant daily for best results. It likes bright light and damp soil but can be tolerant of drought or partial light.  English Ivy, the evergreen climbing vine that is most commonly found outside, can substantially reduce the amount of mold in the air in your home, according to research presented to the American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. As airborne mold spores have been linked to a variety of serious illnesses, English ivy could reduce indoor mold counts. This plant is also useful in eliminating airborne fecal-matter particles and it soaks up carcinogens from second-hand smoke.  The Snake Plant does its work at night. It sucks in carbon dioxide and releases oxygen during the night, helping people sleep better. Many choose to keep it in their bedroom or carpeted living room. It prevents the formaldehyde that leaks from carpets and wood furniture from hanging around in the air.  Like most palms, the Pygmy or Dwarf Date Palm is one of the best for removing indoor air pollutants and is especially adept at removing xylene. Products that contain xylene include paints, varnishes, fingernail polish, adhesives, rubber cement and gasoline. Exposure to xylene in any way, whether it be inhaled, ingested, skin contact or eye contact can cause some harmful health effects. The main effect of inhaling xylene vapor is depression of the central nervous system, with symptoms such as headache, dizziness, nausea and vomiting.  What makes the Chinese Evergreen special is that its effectiveness develops over time. The more time the plant spends in a space, the more effective it becomes at removing the air pollutants and toxins in the area. It emits oxygen and purifies indoor air by removing chemicals, such as formaldahyde, benzene and other toxins.  In SA this plant is almost regarded as a weed. Think again. The Spider plant absorbs carbon monoxide, mold and other allergens from the air. In fact it can remove up to 90 percent of the toxins in your indoor air within two days. NASA places this plant among the top three types of houseplants that are great at removing formaldahyde. It requires natural light, but shouldn’t be exposed directly to the sun. It is easy to grow and you can make more plants from it, as it grows baby versions of itself.   