 The men were overpowered after they experienced problems with their truck’s breaks and pulled over close to the Van Dyksdrift offramp. Whilst the driver of the truck was underneath it, trying to fix an air-leak on the breaks, he heard his assistant screaming. Because of the noise of the engine, the man could not hear what he was screaming. Read: Guard shot in head during transit robbery The next moment, he was pulled from under the truck by his legs. One of his attackers hit him over the head with a rock whilst the other repeatedly kicked him. Watch: Video – Tosca robbed by armed men A third man held a gun to his head whilst he was dragged further from the truck and searched for valuables. A tow truck in action. Photo: vanwettens.co.za He was ordered to run away. The man ran to a nearby roadwork camp and called for help. His boss rushed to the scene. They found the truck still standing next to the road. Robbers fled with a cellphone, GPS, wallet and cash to the value of R3 700. Watch: Video – Armed robbery at Sasol Garage Capt. Khanyisile Zwane, Middelburg police spokesperson, confirmed that they are investigating a charge of robbery. She said that the victim recalled that four men were involved in the robbery. • Two robberies were reported last week Wednesday. Armed men stormed into Tosca Café in Kanonkop and held staff and clients at gunpoint. They made off with an undisclosed amount of cash as well as cellphones. Video footage of the robbery at Tosca. On the same night four minibuses were robbed at Midcon Engineering when a security guard was overpowered, held at gunpoint and tied up. Sterling police work resulted in one a minibus found deserted near the Machado Toll Plaza and the remaining three near Badplaas. The value of the recovered vehicles are estimated to be R2,5 million. New hospital for Middelburg VIDEO – OK Grocer burgled for the third time Have you seen this man? Focus on premature babies VIDEO – Tosca robbed by gang of five armed men Add us on WhatsApp. Save the Middelburg Observer standby number 072 248 3855 on your phone and send a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to receive news links.