Gauteng is less concrete jungle and more African bush than almost any other major metropolitan region on earth, and with the immense range of truly fantastic wildlife #Daycation destinations to choose from, we thought we’d highlight a few popular favourites. Before jumping into our top 4 picks, we’d just like to remind everyone about the importance of road safety over the festive season. To be #SaferThanSafe these holidays, get some expert advice from your nearest Dunlop Zone or check out Dunlop’s Red Hot Rubber Sale.  Situated on an expanse of 16 000 hectares of untamed Highveld bush, the Rhino and Lion park is widely regarded as a reserve that competes with the best in the country in terms of its mesmerising wildlife. The list of animal attractions is as long as it is impressive: along with lions, white rhinos, rare white and Siberian tigers, cheetahs and wild dogs, one may also spot black wildebeest, gemsbok, springbok, black eagles and Cape vultures. The reserve also offers a chance for children to interact with cubs in an animal crèche. And then there are the simply adorable pygmy hippos…  Elephants have long been an object of hypnotic mystery. Their bodies are colossal and their tusks menacing; but, despite their power, these mammoths are rarely aggressive and seem as inwardly tranquil as they are tender. A chance to walk hand-in-trunk with these majestic creatures should be grabbed with grateful hands. Situated just outside Gauteng to the west of Pretoria, the Elephant Sanctuary specialises in respectful and kind interactions with these gentle giants.  Perfect for a #Daycation, the Dinokeng Game Reserve packs an entire week’s worth of game viewing into just a few breath-taking hours. Situated about 30 minutes’ drive to the north of the capital, the reserve is designed to offer those of us who can’t afford a Kruger trip, a chance to marvel at members of the Big 5. As the game ranges freely across the reserve, there is, unfortunately, no guarantee that you’ll spot all 5 on a given day – but you certainly won’t leave feeling disappointed!  Viewing animals in a zoo is undoubtedly very different from the game reserve experience. But, for a sheer variety of fauna (including exceptionally rare species viewed in close quarters) there are very few places in South Africa that can compare with the Johannesburg and Pretoria zoos. Of particular note are the evening/night tours conducted by both. At the Jozi zoo, children can observe exotic creatures like glowing scorpions on the Moonlight Tour, while adults on the Night Tour can immerse themselves in magical nocturnal species. 