NSARRU were contacted on Monday by the manager of the game farm. He informed them that he had caught a South African Rock Python and that he would like them to relocate the snake.He also mentioned that he didn&#8217;t want to kill the snake, as he had been instructed to do by the owner of the farm.NSARRU informed the manager that the Southern African Rock Python is listed as vulnerable in the Latest South African Red Data Book Reptiles and Amphibians (branch 1988) and may not be killed or captured, they are also protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) Laws.Mr Arthur Roden, an inspector from NSARRU, was sent to collect the snake and safely relocate it. The snake was then relocated at Bushfellows Game Lodge.NSARRU would like to thank the manager for not killing the snake, as well as Bushfellows Game Lodge for allowing them to let the snake free on the lodge. The South African Rock Python is a large, nonvenomous snake of sub-Saharan Africa. The Southern African Rock Python is sometimes referred to as the Natal Rock Python or the African Python.It is one of 11 living species in the genus Python. The South African Rock Python is Southern Africa&#8217;s largest snake and it averages 3-4 m and may reach 6 m elsewhere in Africa. Large specimens (over 5 m) are rare nowadays. Enemies of the South African Rock Python are meerkats, mongoose, crocodiles, wild dogs, hyenas, honey badgers, and other snakes, many are killed while crossing roads, some are killed for their fat and skin.The South African Rock Python is widespread and prefers rocky outcrops in arid and moist savanna as well as in lowland forest. South African Rock Pythons are mostly active at night, though very fond of basking in the sun, especially after a large meal.Like all pythons, the South African Rock Python is non-venomous and kills its prey by constriction. After gripping the prey, the snake coils around it, tightening its coils every time the victim breathes out. Death is thought to be caused by cardiac arrest rather than by asphyxiation or crushing.The South African Rock Python feeds on a variety of large rodents, monkeys, dassies, antelopes, cane rats, game birds, fishes, monitor lizards and even crocodiles in forest areas, and on rats, poultry, dogs and goats in suburban areas.Individuals may live for over 12 years in captivity. The babies may take up to 10 years to reach sexual maturity.