With the safety and well-being of the N4 Toll Route s road users being Trans African Concessions (TRAC) primary concern we urge members of the public to take precautions against becoming victims of crime while travelling on the N4 toll road between Tshwane in Gauteng and Maputo in Mozambique.We believe prevention is better than cure and therefore encourage all road users to follow these anti-crime safety tips when travelling on the TRAC N4 Toll Route:* Plan your route and let someone know your expected time of arrival at your destination.* Avoid driving with your windows open and keep the doors locked. Keep valuables out of sight.* Avoid distractions while driving such as using a cellphone.* Always check the rear-view mirror to see if you are being followed. If you suspect you are being followed, drive to your nearest police station or a busy public area.* Avoid stopping on the highway, even in close proximity to toll plazas. Stationary vehicles are most vulnerable to criminal elements.* Do not stop on the side of the road for a toilet break.* Be vigilant when drawing money at ATM s. Do not accept help from strangers.* Pay your toll fees at the toll plaza s only. Ignore anyone who approaches you and indicates they are accepting toll fees on behalf of TRAC.* Do not stop for suspicious law-enforcement vehicles. Should you be tailed by a law-enforcement vehicle it is permissible for you as a driver to opt to stop at a public area such as a filling or police station.Read more here: Wees gewaarsku: Rowers wag langs N4* If you need to stop due to an emergency try do so only at designated facilities such as filling or police stations.* Be vigilant against opportunistic criminal elements that may create a breakdown situation in order to force you to stop on the side of the road and attack you.* Ensure your car is in good working condition. A well-maintained car is less likely to break down and leave you vulnerable.Opvolg: Uiteindelik gehelp* Should your vehicle have unexpected/sudden mechanical or maintenance problems, especially during night hours, do not get out of the vehicle to inspect it. Instead call TRAC s 24-hour Helpdesk on 0800 87 22 64/082 881 4444 for prompt roadside assistance. Should you be out of airtime you can always send a Whatsapp or a Please Call Me to the latter number and we will get back to you immediately.* Do not give people lifts under any circumstances.