He claimed to have been assaulted numerous times during the ordeal and testified that his wrists were bound and he was then tied to one of the bakkies with cable ties.At a deserted place, Mlotswha was taken of the back of the bakkie and forced into a coffin, brought to the scene by Jackson, according to his testimony. Mlotshwa testified that he decided to get into the coffin because of repeated assaults. I have never came across such a thing in my life. I thought it s better to get into the coffin. He told the court how he climbed into the coffin with his lower body first, and later ended up in the coffin with most of his body. He said that he was convinced that they were trying to kill him. At that stage, Mlotshwa had started crying.Judge Sheila Mpahlele opted to adjourn the court for a few minutes, to grant Mlotswha the opportunity to compose himself. It was when she left the bench that chaos erupted.One person from the public bench yelled You f*****g bastards! and You will suffer until you die!God will punish you! at the accused who huddled together in the accused bench at the furthest point from the angry group of people.Another man earlier said that he wants the government to erect RDP houses and many mortuaries around the farm where the incident happened so they can go live there.Also read: Day 3 #Coffincase: Cross examination of Sithole completed Update 11 &#8211; Day 3 #CoffinCase trial &#8211; as it happensUpdate: Accused to call witness on satellite tracking of vehicles Day two coffin case trial continuesVideo: #Coffincase Inspection of locationDay two of coffin case trial about to start in MiddelburgSecond day of Coffin Case trial set to startFollow us on Facebook and Twitter for more updates as it happensAfter proceedings resumed, adv. Robert Molokoane, state prosecutor, requested that court proceedings be adjourned for the day. Adv. Molokoane stated that he was informed by police during the break that there are serious safety concerns for the accused as well as their legal counsel.He also said that an additional 20 police members will be present at court tomorrow.As the public bench emptied, two men yelled at the accused: We are waiting for you outside! Come out! The accused and their legal council left via a separate entrance.Court proceedings will resume at 10:00 tomorrow. An extended video, from where the 20 second video circulated on social media, is expected to be played. A screen was already erected for the purpose of playing the video, but remained unused when proceedings were cut short.