 Lee Cantrell, a toxicologist, came across a box of prescription drugs that had been in a cupboard of a retail pharmacy since the late 1960s. Most of the pills were 30 to 40 years past their expiration dates. The pills could be toxic and were probably worthless. Cantrell, however, saw the discovery of the drugs as an opportunity to find out more about the actual shelf life of drugs. He contacted Roy Gerona, a University of California, San Francisco, researcher who specialises in analysing chemicals. Gerona was excited about the prospect of analysing the drugs. In the Philippines where he grew up, he had seen people recover from illnesses by taking expired drugs, with no apparent negative effects. Lee Cantrell, an associate professor of clinical pharmacology at the University of California, San Diego, with a collection of vintage expired medications. Pharmacies across the world throw out tons of scarce and potentially valuable prescription drugs when they reach their expiration dates. Gerona and Cantrell, a pharmacist and toxicologist, knew that the dates on drug labels are simply the point up to which the FDA and pharmaceutical companies guarantee their effectiveness, typically at two or three years. The dates don’t necessarily mean the drugs are ineffective immediately after they “expire” only that there’s no incentive for pharmaceutical companies to study whether they could still be used. ProPublica has been researching why the US health care system is the most expensive in the world and one answer is waste. Hospitals often discard expensive new supplies, nursing homes trash valuable medications after patients die or move out, and drug companies create expensive combinations of cheap drugs. Experts estimate such waste ads up to about $765 billion a year – a quarter of the US health care spending. Gerona ran tests on the drugs. The bottles contained 14 different compounds, including antihistamines, pain relievers and stimulants. All the drugs were in their original sealed containers. The findings surprised both researchers: Most of the drugs were still as potent as they were when they were manufactured, some at almost 100 percent of their labelled concentrations.   Cantrell and Gerona knew their findings had major implications. Perhaps no area of health care has provoked as much anger in recent years as prescription drugs. Stories in the news of medications priced out of reach of consumers or of shortages of crucial drugs, abound. After Cantrell and Gerona published their findings in Archives of Internal Medicine in 2012, they were accused of being irresponsible and advising patients that it was OK to take expired drugs. Cantrell says they weren’t recommending the use of expired medication, just reviewing the arbitrary way in which the dates are set. The FDA, the agency that helps set the dates, has long known the shelf life of some drugs can be extended, sometimes by years. For decades, the US federal government has stockpiled massive stashes of medication, antidotes and vaccines in secure locations throughout the US. The drugs are worth tens of billions of dollars and would come in handy in a large-scale emergency. Pharmacists and researchers say there is no economic “win” for drug companies to investigate the matter further. They make more money when medications are thrown out by hospitals, pharmacies and consumers despite retaining their safety and effectiveness. 