 Art exchange between countries can be an amazing way to share experiences. South African performance artist/educator Kieron Jina understands this very well and has been engaging with the Berlin art and theatre scene for a few years now. He shares his unique experiences of Berlin, Germany. The longest I’ve lived in Berlin was two months for a performance residency and creation of a collaborative cross-continental performance show. I have however been to Berlin twice a year for the past five years and continue to do so because of work. Berlin is an international cultural melting pot and a space that is constantly changing. Berlin and it’s people look at its history as a learning opportunity for equality and transformation. The beauty of standing up for your rights is others see you standing and stand up as well. I’ve been embraced by a new community. That’s what happens when you’re finally honest about who you are; you find others like you. Each colour that makes up this flag is within each of us and should resonate outward. Happy pride Berlin and keep spreading love across the globe #Equality #Respect #love #csdberlin #queer #lesbian #gay #transgender #transexual #bisexual #humanrights #consistency #pride #pridemonth #pride2017 #gayflag #africanineurope #powerful A post shared by Kieron Jina (@afrohomo) on Jul 22, 2017 at 1:58am PDT Accessible modes of transportation, arts and queer culture, museums, a variety of choice in terms of nightlife, architecture of the older buildings and cost effective spaces to live in. The pace of the city sometimes leaves me feeling anxious if I don’t take breaks or rest between traveling. Some citizens also tend to be dismissive and racist towards North Africans. The quality of the food at some restaurants sometimes leaves me disappointed. I miss people speaking African languages, shisa nyama, African fabrics, landscapes and generally the raw energy that comes from the African continent. The entire city offers so much – just jump on a bike, be friendly and Berlin will show you its special spots and fabulous people. Be open minded because there is a lot to encounter.