 Majority of South Africans own smartphones, and of that majority there are a lot of Android users who haven’t quite figured out just how powerful their phones can be. Here are a few things your phone can do that you might’ve not been aware of. Consider yourself schooled.   Facial recognition allows you to set a lock on your android phone. This is ideal for those that are a little forgetful when it comes to remembering passwords. Add a photo and you are ready to go. Worried about someone hacking your screen lock? You are able to set a “Presence Check” for added security. For best results take your photo indoors where the light is not too dim or bright.   From the navigation panel select the battery power level and swipe towards the left. Alternatively, you can select the default setting where your phone adjusts to the brightness according to your environment.   When you first get your Android phone, you’ll be forced to set up a Google Gmail account. Use it; because the benefits are endless. Open up a Gmail account and sync everything you can with it. You can sync music, videos, and pictures as well as email and calender from your computer to your Android phone or even to a cloud. You may also use the sync function over a wifi network, no wires necessary. This means every time you get a new phone, you merely login into your gmail account and all your documents are there.  ACR is a phone call recorder app allows you to record phone conversations on your phone. Whether you make the call or someone calls you, you can easily store the conversation in your cellphone’s memory.  From the app’s options, you can choose the folder where you want to save the audio file, as well as the format in which you would like to save it. You can even choose a cloud-based storage service such as Dropbox or Google Drive, so that they sync with your recordings. This function, however, is only available for the paid version of the app.    Extra animations on your phone are always needed. If you have Android Lollipop head to Settings – About device – tap “Android Version” hold down until it displays. For more animations in Android KitKat – Press down on the red logo until displays appear.  It’s called Tethering and this feature allows you to turn your smartphone into a Wi-Fi hotspot, and it’s easier than ever to do on Android Lollipop and Marshmallow. The process turns your phone’s cell connection into a Wi-Fi network that other devices can log into.   Your camera on your Android smartphone can also be used as a barcode scanner with apps like Barcode Scanner. The app works with QR codes as well as barcodes and there are plenty of third-party apps on the Google Play Store that do the same job.  