 Siga Veleno, Nelson Mpembe and Antonio Chissve were arrested in connection with a horrific gang rape of two girls near McDonalds at the Middelburg Mall 2015. The girls, then 17 and 18, were confronted by five men in a car at a traffic circle near the mall. They were pushed off their scooter and dragged into the grass where the men took turns to rape them. The girls later told of how they had to listen to each other’s screams whilst they were being raped. Their attackers made off with their belongings including their cellphones, helmets and scooter. Bende verkrag meisies  Police made a breakthrough when an informant told them of a man in possession of a helmet and backpacks at the Uitkyk informal settlement. A second man was arrested in Old Coronation in eMalahleni and the third, in possession of the scooter, in Pine Ridge in the same city. Prosecutor Derik Rowles and Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit constable Jan Skhosana, worked together like a well oiled machine to ensure a conviction. Read: Sweden jails trio for Facebook live stream gang rape Veleno was sentenced to 12 years for robbery and Mpembe to six years for the theft of a scooter. The third accused, Chissve, received 10 years for rape and 15 years for robbery.
   Photo for illustration. Source: pmnewsnigeria.com Chissve was previously found guilty and sentenced to 25 years for rape and robbery relating to an incident where couple was overpowered after they ran into car trouble on the Bethal Road, near the N4. The incident, in which a woman was also raped, happened more or less the same time than the McDonalds rape.   Sentence for Bethal Road case: Sentence for McDonalds case:   This means that he has been effectively sentenced to 40 years behind bars. Chissve will have to serve 25 years of that 40 year sentence, before he can be considered for parole. Read: The gang rape of a girl from Belfast near eMalahleni in 2003, inspired TRAC Assist “We are stoked, this means that he is serving the same time as someone sentenced to life imprisonment would,” said Mr Rowles after the conviction. Chissve was also charged in another case where a woman was allegedly raped 14 times over several hours after she too was overpowered near the N4. The matter has been removed from the roll whilst the state awaits forensic results. Read: India’s top court uphold 2012 gang rape death sentences   Make sure you fill up! Massive fuel price increase tonight Sex, booze and drugs at school – Hillside investigation ongoing Photo gallery – Triathlon at Kids@Swim A ‘mashup’ op beauty and brains Woman suffocated, set alight and cut into pieces Policeman hijacked, shot whilst returning from crime scene Woman claims muti made her teeth fall out Add us on WhatsApp. Save the Middelburg Observer standby number 072 248 3855 on your phone and send a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to receive news links.