The sun is out, the excitement of the festive season is in the air, and, being an awesome parent, you’re probably thinking about your family’s next thrilling escapade in the City of Gold. Fortunately, Jozi is a spectacular playground just waiting to be discovered by little adventurers. But, before progressing to our top Jozi #Daycations, the team at Dunlop have asked us to highlight the importance of road safety over this dangerous period. To ensure that your tyres are #SaferThanSafe these holidays, Request an Online Quote or check out Dunlop’s Red Hot Rubber Sale. OK, let’s jump into it!  Forging a strong connection between fun and learning can be a tricky exercise, but this #Daycation does just that. We start off in Braamfontein, at the People’s Theatre. The theatre specialises in high quality theatrical productions for children, and their colourful current offering, Shrek Jr – the Musical, is guaranteed to mesmerise the little ones. From Braamfontein, we move to the James Hall Museum of Transport in Newtown, where kids will get a first-hand look at bright red fire engines, shiny busses, beautifully crafted trams, vintage cars and remarkable horse drawn carriages, all from the distant past. Last on this list is the Sci-Bono Discovery Centre. The centre, also in Newtown, is the largest of its kind in Southern Africa. Sci-Bono hosts an incredible variety of tech and science related exhibits, and should definitely inspire your children’s curiosity.  The first leg of this #Daycation takes us to the west of the city (Chartwell). The drive will be well worth it, but please bear Dunlop’s request for road safety in mind. Croc City Crocodile and Reptile Park is home to a large number of jaw-dropping reptile species, including 3m long crocs and 10 of SA’s most venomous snakes. For the brave, there’s also a zip-line over the croc enclosures! Next we move to Zoo Lake – the perfect spot for a relaxed afternoon picnic. When you have a moment, feed the vocal ducks and chatty geese, or consider taking a gentle row over the lake. The cherry on top of this #Daycation is its evening offering. The Moonlight Tour at the JHB Zoo is designed to ignite young imaginations, and children can immerse themselves in the exotic and magical species that come to life as the sun sets.  It’s not just any 47 000ha of our beloved Highveld landscape that becomes a UNESCO World Heritage Site, so if you’re in GP, The Cradle of Humankind is simply a must-see for children and adults alike. Start your archaeological expedition by exploring the quiet and tranquil Sterkfontein Caves. Next, get ready to wonder at the fantastic tale of ancient Africa by viewing the absorbing fossil exhibits at the visitors’ centre. End the day on a breath-taking high by catching a lift on the Hartbeespoortdam Cable Way. There is no doubt that for the little ones, this #Daycation will be the stuff of many happy memories for years to come (and they’ll have a great story to tell the grandparents). 