Sue passed away in hospital two days after the ordeal.Sue s husband, Robert Lynn, dressed in a button down shirt and shorts, with the wounds where attackers used a blow torch on him still visible on his legs, sat hunched in the front row of the church, facing a table displaying a photo of Sue surrounded by candles and flowers.At times Robert was overcome with emotion, silently sobbing with shaking shoulders as he mourned the loss of his beloved.Nico Uys, Chairman of the Dullstroom Agricultural Union and Community Policing Forum, started proceedings with a prayer.He said &#8220;We are a broken community at the moment. But when Jesus hung on the cross he did not judge and he did not hate. Help us to be more like him. &#8221;A friend of Sue s, Jackie (surname unknown) said that &#8220;Love which is timeless never seizes to exist and that Sue will always be remembered.&#8221;During the sermon, the preacher said that God understands suffering, He went to the cross. We have to choose love and light and obedience and trust. Go out of your way to be kind. Give and forgive. Rescue the foreign, even dogs. Sue s cousin Nick, from the United Kingdom, wrote in a eulogy that Sue was a pretty girl who loved horses and went to school in Sussex.Read previous story here: The horror of a farm attack Don t be afraid my darling She was without pretence and when she visited, she stayed at the same hotel, insisted to walk everywhere and paid for a lot of things. She even bought gifts for the dogs at Christmas. He wrote of how Sue loved the country life in South Africa and the animals she kept. Nick also called for justice for the dreadful crime that was committed.&nbsp;One of Sue s friends said that she loved three things, her dogs, horses and her husband Robert. I am not sure in what order but I know that she loved them all dearly, he joked.Two of the three dogs Sue adopted from Border Collie Rescue attended the service. A heartfelt letter from them to their mommy was read out in church.Two of Sue s rescue dogs will be staying on the farm with Robert whilst the third dog, which is much younger and was extremely traumatised during the attack, has been placed with a new family.Read previous story here &#8211; Photos: Farm attack suspects appear in Belfast courtSue has not yet been cremated. Her ashes will be given to her husband Robert and he will return with her to the United Kingdom at a later stage.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;