Robert Lynn and Susan Howarth were overpowered in their bedroom, shot, tortured and dumped next to the Stoffberg Road (R33) early on Sunday morning.Afriforum held a wake for Sue Howarth in Middelburg.They were rushed to hospital after being discovered by passersby. Sue passed away on Tuesday morning whilst Robert was discharged from hospital on Wednesday, a bullet still lodged in his neck.A source close to the family, who wished to remain anonymous, says that the forensic unit s conduct have them very worried. How is it possible to sweep a crime scene for forensic evidence, and then they have to be called back two times because they kept on missing important pieces. It makes me shudder to think that these are the people tasked to gather evidence to get murderers convicted, the source said.Attendees of the wake for Sue Howarth form a circle to pray in the rain.After receiving news of the farm attack, farmers from the area rushed to the scene. They have strict rules in place in order to preserve the crime scene and assist the police in following up immediate leads. The house and surrounding areas were cordoned off in order to avoid trampling on possible tracks and destroying evidence. The fist people to be allowed into the cordoned off premises was the investigating officer and the Dullstroom station commander. Thereafter the forensic unit arrived. We were very careful to protect the scene because we know how important evidence pieces are in a court case, another source who was on the scene told www.mobserver.co.za.It was when friends of Robert and Sue started cleaning the house on Monday, that they discovered a bullet between the sheets of the couple s bed. The forensic unit was called back and went through the house once again.Ian Cameron of Afriforum speaks about the recent increase in farm attacks.During the second attempt to get the house neat and ready for Robert s return, a Border Collie Rescue donation can was found cut open in a laundry basket. The forensic team was called back a second time. In both cases where evidence were discovered, it was carefully preserved as to not destroy possible forensic leads.In recent years, the suspects for the murder of Francois du Toit in Roossenekal, were let go after the state leaned heavily on an identification parade where one of the victims pointed out the correct suspect and failed to connect them with DNA evidence. Retired policeman Anton Crafford led a small unit of forensic specialists that focused on violent crimes. They solved several high profile cases such as the murder of Jan du Toit in Dennesig for which Thabang Mohlala was found guilty and sentenced. Shortly after Crafford went on pension, the unit was disbanded.Anton Crafford carries Wiehan Botes (5 months) after he was murdered in Delmas. PHOTO: Beeld The police have established a task team who has been working non-stop to try and trace the suspects in the murder. They have been giving the investigation their all, with someone involved with the tracing of the suspects, saying that What these people did to that couple was horrific. We will catch them. We cannot allow such animals to walk the streets of our country. The provincial police communication office did not reply to requests for comment before deadline.