 Benoit Knox who Henning calls “his publisher” said that Henning’s journey has been long and impressive and he’s proud to say that he walked part of the way with him since he first published his best-selling “Inspiring Champions” in 2014 and last year his “Champion’s Diary”.  “It was admittedly a very exciting time for me, because as a small publisher it’s usually me who has to grovel to get Exclusive books to stock our books. Having a celebrity author makes all the difference, because for the first time in my career, orders for “Inspiring Champions” came in fast and from all over the country.    “Henning’s vast experience has made him uniquely qualified to work with the elite of South African athletes and business people. He is a champion in his own right, both on the track and in life. He is a generous teacher and mentor. Lees ook: Ons eie dramakoningin “He is also exceptionally well-read and encyclopaedic in his ability to bring up the right inspirational story for the right situation. “For me, the most remarkable aspect of Henning is his humility and his sincere compassion for people. Unlike many authors, Henning doesn’t write for himself. He writes for us, his readers. He writes to help us unshackle ourselves from the chains that keep us from reaching our potential. Lees ook: Fopnuus is ‘ongesond en siek’ “Henning also practices what he preaches. In “Inspiring Champions” his first chapter is ‘dare to dream’. Henning is a dreamer. He also has the perseverance of a champion. And there is nothing more dangerous than someone who can dream wild and fantastical things, who is willing to go the whole distance to make them come true.  “When Henning told me about the concept of “The Way of the Stonecutter”, he was describing a very difficult book. A book which would have the author in conversation with the reader, while they ponder the meaning of life and explore the depths of the human psyche. The book he was describing was not usual, not the typical self-help book or business book. It would be a deeply personal journey with your own personal guru. Henning pulled it off. His book, is short, but very powerful. He had the guts to dream it up, the mental tenacity to go the distance and the skill to deliver. Lees ook: Plaasaanvalle meer brutaal “That’s why I know that later this evening, when Henning tells me, “I have an idea for a new book”, the manuscript will be on my desk before Christmas and we’ll be launching it next year.”